README.md, before:

STMBL is an open source servo drive designed for retrofitting CNC machines and robots. It supports industrial AC and DC servo motors with up to 320V and 1kW.

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/rene-dev/stmbl](https://badges.gitter.im/rene-dev/stmbl.svg)](https://gitter.im/rene-dev/stmbl?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge) (click to chat with us)

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/rene-dev/stmbl.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/rene-dev/stmbl) (click for build log)

Disclaimer
=====

THE AUTHORS OF THIS SOFTWARE ACCEPT ABSOLUTELY NO LIABILITY FOR
ANY HARM OR LOSS RESULTING FROM ITS USE.  IT IS _EXTREMELY_ UNWISE
TO RELY ON SOFTWARE ALONE FOR SAFETY.  Any machinery capable of
harming persons must have provisions for completely removing power
from all motors, etc, before persons enter any danger area.  All
machinery must be designed to comply with local and national safety
codes, and the authors of this software can not, and do not, take
any responsibility for such compliance.

This software is released under the GPLv3.

STMBL
=====
There is a wiki. https://github.com/rene-dev/stmbl/wiki
There will be documentation.

**IRC: #stmbl on irc.hackint.eu**
https://webirc.hackint.org/#stmbl

Documentation about the PCB and pinout of the feedback connector:

https://github.com/rene-dev/stmbl/wiki/Pinouts

https://github.com/rene-dev/stmbl/wiki/PCB

##### Hardware version 4.0
![top](http://rene-dev.github.io/IMG_2017-03-05%2022:08:03.jpg)
![bot](http://rene-dev.github.io/IMG_2017-03-05%2022:07:44.jpg)

##### Driving a Bosch Turboscara
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d6NH1W7DUnQ

##### Driving a Manutec Robot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gwgnAeGjZrA  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wXLcAZwjlzE

##### Drivetest
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-E1o_5cFyto

#### Supported Motors
* Synchronous AC Servos
* DC Servos
* 2 Phase HF spindle motors
* IRAMX Hardware testet up to 320V

#### Supported Feedback systems
* Resolvers
* Incremental encoders
* sin/cos encoder interpolation
* Mitsubishi absolute encoders
* Sanyo Denki absolute encoders
* Yaskawa absolute encoders
* Sick HIPERFACE®

##### Planned:
* EnDat
* BiSS
* SSI
* Sanyo Denki wire-saving incremental encoder

#### Supported Position/Velocity Commands Inputs:
* Smartserial
* Quadrature
* Step/direction
* RS485

#### TODO
* AC Async

#### Directories
* hw/eagle/ Eagle board files and schematics
* hw/spice/ Spice simulation for resolver interface
* src/ STM32F4 code, command, feedback and control loop
* stm32f103/ STM32F1 code, running on the HV side, generating PWM
* bootloader/ bootloader for the f4

Commit message:

README.md: add some skateboard related info

README.md, after:

How to use with skateboard:

- Compile:

For some reason you need exactly this compiler:
<code>
  gcc-arm-none-eabi-5_4-2016q3
</code>

- on any newer gcc version, the board does not boot after flashing !?
- Adjust path in TOOLCHAIN variable in toolchain.mak file
- The board works correctly if the green LED lights up. When receiving data over UART
  the LED flashes blue.

<code>
  make -f stm32f303/Makefile
</code>

- bridge pins for DFU mode while plugging in USB cable
- flash using the following command:

<code>
  sudo dfu-util -d 0483:df11 -a 0 -s 0x8000000:leave -D obj_hvf3/hvf3.bin
</code>

You meight also adjust some stuff in main.c (PID controller params etc.)


STMBL is an open source servo drive designed for retrofitting CNC machines and robots. It supports industrial AC and DC servo motors with up to 320V and 1kW.

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/rene-dev/stmbl](https://badges.gitter.im/rene-dev/stmbl.svg)](https://gitter.im/rene-dev/stmbl?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge) (click to chat with us)

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/rene-dev/stmbl.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/rene-dev/stmbl) (click for build log)

Disclaimer
=====

THE AUTHORS OF THIS SOFTWARE ACCEPT ABSOLUTELY NO LIABILITY FOR
ANY HARM OR LOSS RESULTING FROM ITS USE.  IT IS _EXTREMELY_ UNWISE
TO RELY ON SOFTWARE ALONE FOR SAFETY.  Any machinery capable of
harming persons must have provisions for completely removing power
from all motors, etc, before persons enter any danger area.  All
machinery must be designed to comply with local and national safety
codes, and the authors of this software can not, and do not, take
any responsibility for such compliance.

This software is released under the GPLv3.

STMBL
=====
There is a wiki. https://github.com/rene-dev/stmbl/wiki
There will be documentation.

**IRC: #stmbl on irc.hackint.eu**
https://webirc.hackint.org/#stmbl

Documentation about the PCB and pinout of the feedback connector:

https://github.com/rene-dev/stmbl/wiki/Pinouts

https://github.com/rene-dev/stmbl/wiki/PCB

##### Hardware version 4.0
![top](http://rene-dev.github.io/IMG_2017-03-05%2022:08:03.jpg)
![bot](http://rene-dev.github.io/IMG_2017-03-05%2022:07:44.jpg)

##### Driving a Bosch Turboscara
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d6NH1W7DUnQ

##### Driving a Manutec Robot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gwgnAeGjZrA  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wXLcAZwjlzE

##### Drivetest
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-E1o_5cFyto

#### Supported Motors
* Synchronous AC Servos
* DC Servos
* 2 Phase HF spindle motors
* IRAMX Hardware testet up to 320V

#### Supported Feedback systems
* Resolvers
* Incremental encoders
* sin/cos encoder interpolation
* Mitsubishi absolute encoders
* Sanyo Denki absolute encoders
* Yaskawa absolute encoders
* Sick HIPERFACE®

##### Planned:
* EnDat
* BiSS
* SSI
* Sanyo Denki wire-saving incremental encoder

#### Supported Position/Velocity Commands Inputs:
* Smartserial
* Quadrature
* Step/direction
* RS485

#### TODO
* AC Async

#### Directories
* hw/eagle/ Eagle board files and schematics
* hw/spice/ Spice simulation for resolver interface
* src/ STM32F4 code, command, feedback and control loop
* stm32f103/ STM32F1 code, running on the HV side, generating PWM
* bootloader/ bootloader for the f4
